Creating "SSO with Next.js" blog post (#1925)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/_posts/2023-02-10-nextjs-single-sign-on.md

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to design and implement SSO using [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), a popular React-based framework for JavaScript and FusionAuth as the OIDC provider. Any other OIDC compatible authentication server should work as well.

## Implementing SSO in a Next.js web app

As previously stated, in this tutorial, you'll be shown how to implement SSO in a Next.js web app. The Next.js demo application is integrated with FusionAuth, an authentication and authorization platform, and [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org), a complete open-source authentication solution, in this article.

Before you begin, you'll need the following:

* A Linux machine. The step-by-step instructions in this article are based on a [CentOS Linux machine](https://www.centos.org). If you want to work on a different OS, check out this [setup guide](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/5-minute-setup-guide) for more information.
* [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

> * Experience with Next.js framework and application development.

Author: It is shipped with Node.js, which I now added as a requirement

### Starting FusionAuth

{% include posts/sso/starting.md %}

### Configure FusionAuth

Now you need to configure FusionAuth.

First, you'll create a new RSA key to sign your JSON Web Tokens, then configure the application and register the user for the application.

This setup allows users in FusionAuth to sign in to the Next.js application automatically once they are authenticated by FusionAuth.

### Create a new RSA key

Create an RSA key pair to sign your JSON Web Tokens by going to _"Settings"_ &rarr; _"Key Master"_. Then, look at the _"Generate"_ button in the top right corner of the page. If it is _"Generate RSA"_, click it. If it is another option, click the _"⌄"_ button right next to it to display more options and then click _"Generate RSA"_.

In the dialog, fill in a name for your key, the issuer as your FusionAuth application domain and make sure that the _"Algorithm"_ is _"RSA using SHA-256"_. Click _"Submit"_ to save the key.

> {% include _image.liquid src="/assets/img/blogs/nextjs-single-sign-on/rsa-jwt.gif" alt="Generating a new RSA key." class="img-fluid" figure=true %}

Author: I've removed this part in favor of "Auto generate a new key on save..." which is enough

## Method 2: Create your own Next.js application

If you want to create your own application instead of using our demo project, you can create a new Next.js application by running the command below.

```shell
$ npx create-next-app name-of-your-application
```

If it is your first time creating a Next.js application, you'll be prompted to install the `create-next-app` package. Just type `y` to accept it.

You can answer the questions from the wizard any way you want. Here are the ones that we used in our demo project.

```
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript with this project? … No
✔ Would you like to use ESLint with this project? … Yes
✔ Would you like to use `src/` directory with this project? … Yes
? Would you like to use experimental `app/` directory with this project? … No
✔ What import alias would you like configured? … @/*
```

There are several ways of [implementing authentication with Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/authentication, and we'll use [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org), a complete open-source authentication solution, in this article.

> 

Reviewer: Can you please have the reader start up the blank application here and make sure it works before we jump into installing the auth piece?

### Installing NextAuth.js

> 

Reviewer: Do I need to `cd` into the application directory? I think so.

{% include _callout-note.liquid content="We recommend you look at the [NextAuth.js Getting Start guide](https://next-auth.js.org/getting-started/example) for more up-to-date instructions." %}

First, install NextAuth.js via one of the following three methods.

```shell
# Using npm
$ npm install next-auth

# Using yarn
$ yarn add next-auth

# Using pnpm
$ pnpm add next-auth
```

> Now, you need to create a file named exactly like `[...nextauth].js` in `src/pages/api/auth` (you need to create the `auth` folder there) and configure the [built-in support for FusionAuth](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/fusionauth). This will make every request to `/api/auth/*` handled by NextAuth.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you need to create a file named exactly like `[...nextauth].js` in `src/pages/api/auth`.

First, make the directory:

``shell
mkdir src/pages/api/auth 
``

Then create a file named `[...nextauth].js` in that directory.

Next, you'll configure the [built-in support for FusionAuth](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/fusionauth). Doing so ensures every request to the `/api/auth/*` path is handled by NextAuth.js.
```

Makes sure to add the extra backtick to the mkdir section. I couldn't have it have 3 backticks without ruining the suggestion.

```jsx
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import FusionAuthProvider from "next-auth/providers/fusionauth"

export const authOptions = {
    providers: [
        FusionAuthProvider({
            issuer: process.env.FUSIONAUTH_ISSUER,
            clientId: process.env.FUSIONAUTH_CLIENT_ID,
            clientSecret: process.env.FUSIONAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET,

>             wellKnown: `${process.env.FUSIONAUTH_URL}/.well-known/openid-configuration`,

Reviewer 2: Does this need to have the `clientId` added at the end like you would find in the FusionAuth Application OAuth2 Integration Details?

`http://localhost:9012/.well-known/openid-configuration/{process.env.FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID}`

```jsx
import {useSession, signIn, signOut} from "next-auth/react"

export default function Component() {
    const {data: session} = useSession()
    if (session) {
        return (
            <>
                Logged in as {session.user.email} <br/>
                <button onClick={() => signOut()}>Log out</button>
            </>
        )
    }
    return (
        <>
            Not logged in <br/>
            <button onClick={() => signIn()}>Log in</button>
        </>
    )
}
```

Then, you change your home component located at `src/pages/index.js` to include the `<LoginButton />` component anywhere in that fragment.

```jsx
// Other imports...
import LoginButton from '@/components/login-button';

export default function Home() {
    return (
        /* Other lines of the Home component */
        <LoginButton/>
        /* Other lines of the Home component */
    )
}
```

## Environment variables

If you cloned the demo repository, you can copy `.env.local.dist` to `.env.local` and change the values there. If not, create it and fill in the details from your FusionAuth application.

> ```dotenv

Author: I've replaced `dotenv` with `ini`
